README.md, before:

slow grid sample
================

A sample project to demonstrate the slowness of the grid being generated (rendered) in the browser using the basic Vaadin template with the latest Vaadin 8.1.6 release.

Vaadin Issue #10232 on GitHub: https://github.com/vaadin/framework/issues/10232 


Performance Results:
====================

- Run the application, run "mvn jetty:run" and open http://localhost:8080/ for manual tests.

or

- Run "mvn integration-tests" for automated tests using Testbench (CVAL license required)


Performance
===========

Automated test results run locally on 64 Bit browsers on Windows 7 64 Bit OS

|Browser|Vaadin Version|Grid Size (C,HC,R)|Render Time (ms)|Request Time (ms)|
|-------|--------------|------------------|----------------|-----------------|
|CH|8.1.6|(11, 1, 1000)|1267|17|
|CH|8.1.6|(100, 0, 1000)|3059|48|
|CH|8.1.6|(100, 0, 3000)|2891|28|
|CH|8.1.6|(100, 20, 3000)|5768|33|
|FF|8.1.6|(11, 1, 1000)|2680|8|
|FF|8.1.6|(100, 0, 1000)|9020|27|
|FF|8.1.6|(100, 0, 3000)|8955|27|
|FF|8.1.6|(100, 20, 3000)|12082|34|
|IE|8.1.6|(11, 1, 1000)|2820|8|
|IE|8.1.6|(100, 0, 1000)|10368|28|
|IE|8.1.6|(100, 0, 3000)|10386|34|
|IE|8.1.6|(100, 20, 3000)|16607|25|
|CH|8.1.2|(11, 1, 1000)|1112|26|
|CH|8.1.2|(100, 0, 1000)|2949|43|
|CH|8.1.2|(100, 0, 3000)|2825|42|
|CH|8.1.2|(100, 20, 3000)|5673|30|
|FF|8.1.2|(11, 1, 1000)|2645|7|
|FF|8.1.2|(100, 0, 1000)|7992|20|
|FF|8.1.2|(100, 0, 3000)|8638|19|
|FF|8.1.2|(100, 20, 3000)|11250|31|
|IE|8.1.2|(11, 1, 1000)|2818|7|
|IE|8.1.2|(100, 0, 1000)|10385|22|
|IE|8.1.2|(100, 0, 3000)|10456|22|
|IE|8.1.2|(100, 20, 3000)|16722|33|
|CH|8.1.0|(11, 1, 1000)|1163|18|
|CH|8.1.0|(100, 0, 1000)|3050|37|
|CH|8.1.0|(100, 0, 3000)|2935|32|
|CH|8.1.0|(100, 20, 3000)|5640|34|
|FF|8.1.0|(11, 1, 1000)|2629|6|
|FF|8.1.0|(100, 0, 1000)|8983|25|
|FF|8.1.0|(100, 0, 3000)|8746|23|
|FF|8.1.0|(100, 20, 3000)|12563|25|
|IE|8.1.0|(11, 1, 1000)|3278|8|
|IE|8.1.0|(100, 0, 1000)|11667|50|
|IE|8.1.0|(100, 0, 3000)|11653|35|
|IE|8.1.0|(100, 20, 3000)|18712|36|
|CH|8.1.6|(11, 1, 1000)|1342|16|
|CH|8.1.6|(100, 0, 1000)|3370|51|
|CH|8.1.6|(100, 0, 3000)|3229|38|
|CH|8.1.6|(100, 20, 3000)|6326|41|
|FF|8.1.6|(11, 1, 1000)|3145|9|
|FF|8.1.6|(100, 0, 1000)|10035|27|
|FF|8.1.6|(100, 0, 3000)|10141|25|
|FF|8.1.6|(100, 20, 3000)|13929|36|
|IE|8.1.6|(11, 1, 1000)|3245|10|
|IE|8.1.6|(100, 0, 1000)|11804|50|
|IE|8.1.6|(100, 0, 3000)|11929|36|
|IE|8.1.6|(100, 20, 3000)|18875|41|

Used browsers:

Chrome 58.0.3029.110 (64 bit)
Firefox 55.0.3 (64 Bit)
Internet Explorer 11.0.9600.18837 (64 Bit)

Grid with 80 columns and 1000 rows:
-----------------------------------
Manually tested on local browser with 64 Bit on Windows 7 64 Bit OS - no slow test VMs.

|Browser   |V8.1.6 Grid|
|----------|-----------|
|Chrome    |~ 3 seconds|
|Firefox 55|>12s       |
|IE11      |~ 6 seconds|

Additional test notes: Firefox reported an error because the script was still running.


Project Usage
=============

To compile the entire project, run "mvn install" using Maven > 3.

To run the application, run "mvn jetty:run" and open http://localhost:8080/ 
- then change the columns, hidden columns and rows to your liking and generate the grid after hiding it

To produce a deployable production mode WAR:
- change productionMode to true in the servlet class configuration (nested in the UI class)
- run "mvn clean package"
- test the war file with "mvn jetty:run-war"

Commit message:

switched to latest Vaadin 8.2.1 release which contains a fix for the rendering slowness with hidden columns and updated benchmark values.

README.md, after:

slow grid sample
================

A sample project to demonstrate the slowness of the grid being generated (rendered) in the browser using the basic Vaadin template with the Vaadin 8.1.6 and 8.2.1 release.

Vaadin Issue #10232 on GitHub: https://github.com/vaadin/framework/issues/10232 


Performance Results:
====================

- Run the application, run "mvn jetty:run" and open http://localhost:8080/ for manual tests.

or

- Run "mvn integration-tests" for automated tests using Testbench (CVAL license required)


Performance
===========

Automated test results run locally on 64 Bit browsers on Windows 7 64 Bit OS

|Browser|Vaadin Version|Grid Size (C,HC,R)|Render Time (ms)|Request Time (ms)|
|-------|--------------|------------------|----------------|-----------------|
|CH|8.1.6|(11, 1, 1000)|1267|17|
|CH|8.1.6|(100, 0, 1000)|3059|48|
|CH|8.1.6|(100, 0, 3000)|2891|28|
|CH|8.1.6|(100, 20, 3000)|5768|33|
|FF|8.1.6|(11, 1, 1000)|2680|8|
|FF|8.1.6|(100, 0, 1000)|9020|27|
|FF|8.1.6|(100, 0, 3000)|8955|27|
|FF|8.1.6|(100, 20, 3000)|12082|34|
|IE|8.1.6|(11, 1, 1000)|2820|8|
|IE|8.1.6|(100, 0, 1000)|10368|28|
|IE|8.1.6|(100, 0, 3000)|10386|34|
|IE|8.1.6|(100, 20, 3000)|16607|25|
|CH|8.1.2|(11, 1, 1000)|1112|26|
|CH|8.1.2|(100, 0, 1000)|2949|43|
|CH|8.1.2|(100, 0, 3000)|2825|42|
|CH|8.1.2|(100, 20, 3000)|5673|30|
|FF|8.1.2|(11, 1, 1000)|2645|7|
|FF|8.1.2|(100, 0, 1000)|7992|20|
|FF|8.1.2|(100, 0, 3000)|8638|19|
|FF|8.1.2|(100, 20, 3000)|11250|31|
|IE|8.1.2|(11, 1, 1000)|2818|7|
|IE|8.1.2|(100, 0, 1000)|10385|22|
|IE|8.1.2|(100, 0, 3000)|10456|22|
|IE|8.1.2|(100, 20, 3000)|16722|33|
|CH|8.1.0|(11, 1, 1000)|1163|18|
|CH|8.1.0|(100, 0, 1000)|3050|37|
|CH|8.1.0|(100, 0, 3000)|2935|32|
|CH|8.1.0|(100, 20, 3000)|5640|34|
|FF|8.1.0|(11, 1, 1000)|2629|6|
|FF|8.1.0|(100, 0, 1000)|8983|25|
|FF|8.1.0|(100, 0, 3000)|8746|23|
|FF|8.1.0|(100, 20, 3000)|12563|25|
|IE|8.1.0|(11, 1, 1000)|3278|8|
|IE|8.1.0|(100, 0, 1000)|11667|50|
|IE|8.1.0|(100, 0, 3000)|11653|35|
|IE|8.1.0|(100, 20, 3000)|18712|36|
|CH|8.1.6|(11, 1, 1000)|1342|16|
|CH|8.1.6|(100, 0, 1000)|3370|51|
|CH|8.1.6|(100, 0, 3000)|3229|38|
|CH|8.1.6|(100, 20, 3000)|6326|41|
|FF|8.1.6|(11, 1, 1000)|3145|9|
|FF|8.1.6|(100, 0, 1000)|10035|27|
|FF|8.1.6|(100, 0, 3000)|10141|25|
|FF|8.1.6|(100, 20, 3000)|13929|36|
|IE|8.1.6|(11, 1, 1000)|3245|10|
|IE|8.1.6|(100, 0, 1000)|11804|50|
|IE|8.1.6|(100, 0, 3000)|11929|36|
|IE|8.1.6|(100, 20, 3000)|18875|41|
|-------|--------------|------------------|----------------|-----------------|
|CH|8.1.7|(10, 0, 1000)|1049|0|
|CH|8.1.7|(100, 0, 1000)|2837|0|
|CH|8.1.7|(50, 50, 1000)|6538|0|
|FF|8.1.7|(10, 0, 1000)|2148|0|
|FF|8.1.7|(100, 0, 1000)|6037|0|
|FF|8.1.7|(50, 50, 1000)|12238|0|
|IE|8.1.7|(10, 0, 1000)|2887|0|
|IE|8.1.7|(100, 0, 1000)|11041|0|
|IE|8.1.7|(50, 50, 1000)|19261|0|
|-------|--------------|------------------|----------------|-----------------|
|CH|8.2.1|(10, 0, 1000)|982|0|
|CH|8.2.1|(100, 0, 1000)|2720|0|
|CH|8.2.1|(50, 50, 1000)|1909|0|
|FF|8.2.1|(10, 0, 1000)|1792|0|
|FF|8.2.1|(100, 0, 1000)|6065|0|
|FF|8.2.1|(50, 50, 1000)|5029|0|
|IE|8.2.1|(10, 0, 1000)|2462|0|
|IE|8.2.1|(100, 0, 1000)|10637|0|
|IE|8.2.1|(50, 50, 1000)|7143|0|
|-------|--------------|------------------|----------------|-----------------|

Hint: Enabling vaadinProductionMode reports Request Time with 0 ms starting with 8.1.7 and 8.2.1 Vaadin.

Used browsers:

Chrome 58.0.3029.110 (64 bit)
Firefox 55.0.3 (64 Bit)
Internet Explorer 11.0.9600.18837 (64 Bit)

Grid with 80 columns and 1000 rows:
-----------------------------------
Manually tested on local browser with 64 Bit on Windows 7 64 Bit OS - no slow test VMs.

|Browser   |V8.1.6 Grid|
|----------|-----------|
|Chrome    |~ 3 seconds|
|Firefox 55|>12s       |
|IE11      |~ 6 seconds|

Additional test notes: Firefox reported an error because the script was still running.


Project Usage
=============

To compile the entire project, run "mvn install" using Maven > 3.

To run the application, run "mvn jetty:run" and open http://localhost:8080/ 
- then change the columns, hidden columns and rows to your liking and generate the grid after hiding it

To produce a deployable production mode WAR:
- change productionMode to true in the servlet class configuration (nested in the UI class)
- run "mvn clean package"
- test the war file with "mvn jetty:run-war"
